---
```vbscript
title: "Reading an Attribute"
category: "use case"
module: "CAACgmModel"
tags: ["CATICGMContainer", "CAAGMModelAttributeRead", "CAADoc", "CATICGMObject", "CAAGMModelAttribute", "CAAGMModelInterfaces", "CAAGMModelAttributeCreation", "CAAGMModelAttributeManagement", "CAAAttributeManagement"]
source_file: "Doc/online/CAACgmModel/CAACgmUcGobAttRead.htm"
converted: "2026-05-11T17:33:48.354122"
```

---
# Reading an Attribute

---
Use Case
## Abstract

This use case explains how to read a CATCGMStreamAttribute. It is associated with the Creating an Attribute article [1]. Run this use case after you have run the CAAGMModelAttributeCreation use case. The file generated by the CAAGMModelAttributeCreation use case is to be used as input file for the CAAGMModelAttributeRead use case.
    * What You Will Learn With This Use Case
    * The CAAGMModelAttributeRead Use Case
      * What Does CAAGMModelAttributeRead Do
      * How to Launch CAAGMModelAttributeRead
      * Where to Find the CAAGMModelAttributeRead Code
    * Step-by-Step
    * In Short
    * References
---
## What You Will Learn With This Use Case

The use case explains how to read a CATCGMStreamAttribute. The attribute implementation is defined in the CAAGMModelAttribute.m module. The way it has to be created is explained in Creating an Attribute [1].
## The CAAGMModelAttributeRead Use Case

CAAGMModelAttributeRead is a use case of the CAAGMModelInterfaces.edu framework that illustrates GMModelInterfaces framework capabilities.
### What Does CAAGMModelAttributeRead Do

This use case loads a file and scans the geometry to search for the attributes of a given type (CAAGMModelAttributeManagement) on a geometry of a given type (PLineType).
### How to Launch CAAGMModelAttributeRead

This use case loads a file and scans the geometry to search for the attributes of a given type (CAAGMModelAttributeManagement) on a geometry of a given type (PLineType).
To launch CAAGMModelAttributeRead, you will need to set up the build time environment, then compile CAAGMModelAttributeRead.m and CAAGMModelAttribute.m along with their prerequisites, set up the run time environment, and then execute the use case [2].

You must type CAAGMModelAttributeRead with an argument to execute the use case.

`CAAGMModelAttributeRead e/AttToBeRead.NCGM`

AttToBeRead.NCGM is the file generated by CAAGMModelAttributeCreation.m
### Where to Find the CAAGMModelAttributeRead Code

The CAAGMModelAttributeRead use case is made of a main named CAAGMModelAttributeRead.cpp located in the CAAGMModelAttributeRead.m module of the CAAGMModelInterfaces.edu framework:

`InstallRootFolder\CAADoc\CAAGMModelInterfaces.edu\CAAGMModelAttributeRead.m\`

The CAAGMModelAttributeRead use case is made of a main named CAAGMModelAttributeRead.cpp located in the CAAGMModelAttributeRead.m module of the CAAGMModelInterfaces.edu framework:
where `InstallRootFolder` [2] is the folder where the API CD-ROM is installed.

The use case uses a class defined in the CAAGMModelAttribute.m module.

## Step-by-Step

where `InstallRootFolder` [2] is the folder where the API CD-ROM is installed.
The use case uses a class defined in the CAAGMModelAttribute.m module.
The main program peforms the following steps:

    * Loading the File to Be Read
    * Looping though the Geometry
    * Closing the Input File and the CGM Container
### Loading the File to Be Read

The geometry factory (CATGeoFactory) creates and manages all the CATICGMObject (and the curves and surfaces in particular). In this use case, the factory is defined by reading a NCGM file that was previously stored,  the global function `::CATLoadCGMContainer` must be used to retrieve the factory.

    CATGeoFactory* piGeomFactory = ::CATLoadCGMContainer(filetoread);
### Looping through the Geometry

The geometry factory (CATGeoFactory) creates and manages all the CATICGMObject (and the curves and surfaces in particular). In this use case, the factory is defined by reading a NCGM file that was previously stored,  the global function `::CATLoadCGMContainer` must be used to retrieve the factory.
CATGeoFactory* piGeomFactory = ::CATLoadCGMContainer(filetoread);
Here are the step to follow in order to read specific attributes in a geometry.

    1. Scan the geometry by using the CATICGMContainer::Next method.
    2. For each objects sanned by the loop, retrieve the persistent tag by using the CATGeometry::GetPersistentTag method.
    3. For each geometry, retrieve the CATICGMObject by using the CATGeometry::FindObjectFromTag method.
    4. For each CATICGMObject, retrieve the appropriate attribute by using the CATICGMObject ::GetAttribute method.
    5. Use the GetValue method applied to the retrieved attribute to read the attribute value.

    // (b) --- Loop through the geometry
    //
    ...
5. Use the GetValue method applied to the retrieved attribute to read the attribute value.
    for (piCurG = piGeomFactory->Next(NULL,CATPLineType);
    piCurG != NULL;
```vbscript
    piCurG = piGeomFactory->Next(piCurG))

```

      {
        // Find the PLine from its persistent tag
        //
piCurG != NULL;
piCurG = piGeomFactory->Next(piCurG))
```vbscript
        curtag = piCurG->GetPersistentTag();
```

        CATICGMObject * piCGMObj = piGeomFactory->FindObjectFromTag(curtag);
```vbscript
        if (piCGMObj == NULL)

```

    	{
curtag = piCurG->GetPersistentTag();
CATICGMObject * piCGMObj = piGeomFactory->FindObjectFromTag(curtag);
if (piCGMObj == NULL)
    	  cout << "No object with the specified tag" <<endl;
    			return 1;

    	}

        // Retrieve the CATCGMAttribute from its identifier
        //
return 1;
        CATCGMAttribute * piActAttr = piCGMObj->
        GetAttribute(UAIDPtr(CAAGMModelAttributeManagement));

        // No searched attribute found on the PLine
        //
CATCGMAttribute * piActAttr = piCGMObj->
GetAttribute(UAIDPtr(CAAGMModelAttributeManagement));
```vbscript
```vbscript
       if (NULL == piActAttr)

```

```

    	{
```vbscript
if (NULL == piActAttr)
                cout << "------------------------------------------------- " << endl;
    	   cout << "PLine with no CAAGMModelAttributeManagement attribute " << endl;
```

    	}

        // The searched attribute found on the Pline
        //
cout << "PLine with no CAAGMModelAttributeManagement attribute " << endl;
        else

    	{
else
    	   cout << "------------------------------------------------- " << endl;
    	   cout << "PLine with CAAGMModelAttributeManagement attribute    " << endl;

                CAAGMModelAttributeManagement * iPersAttr = NULL;
```vbscript
    	   iPersAttr = (CAAGMModelAttributeManagement *) piActAttr;

```

                // Retrieve the attribute value
                // See the CAAAttributeManagement module
    	   //
iPersAttr = (CAAGMModelAttributeManagement *) piActAttr;
```vbscript
```vbscript
    		if (iPersAttr)

```

```

    		{
```vbscript
if (iPersAttr)
    			long oPersval;
    	          	iPersAttr->GetValue(oPersval);
```

    		}
```vbscript
if (iPersAttr)
long oPersval;
iPersAttr->GetValue(oPersval);
    			else return 1;
               		cout << "----------------------------------- " << endl;
```

    		}
    	}
      }
### Closing the Input File and the CGM Container

The use case ends with the closure of the file and the CGM container (done by the `::CATCloseCGMContainer` global function).

The use case ends with the closure of the file and the CGM container (done by the `::CATCloseCGMContainer` global function).
    filetoread.close();
    CATCloseCGMContainer(piGeomFactory);

## In Short

filetoread.close();
CATCloseCGMContainer(piGeomFactory);
The use case illustrates how to read attributes.

## References

[1] | [Creating an Attribute](CAACgmUcGobAttCreation.md)
---|---
[2] |  [ Building and Launching a Use Case](../CAADocUseCases/CAADocRunSample.md)
## History

Version: **1** [Apr 2000] | Document created
---|---
